# Zebrafish Data Analysis

This repository provides Python scripts for analyzing and visualizing zebrafish experimental data generated by the ViewPoint ZebraBox device as well as formating and analyzing clocklab data. The experimental dataset and format can be requested from the author. Note that this codebase is tailored for specific experiments and may have limited applicability for other use cases.
Follow the steps below to set up the environment and run the analysis.

## Prerequisites

1. Install [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) (version 3.7 or higher).
2. Ensure `pip` is installed and available in your system's PATH.

## Setup Instructions

1. **Clone the Repository**  
    Clone this repository to your local machine.

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/your-repo/ZebraFishDataAnalysis.git
    cd ZebraFishDataAnalysis
    ```

2. **Set Up a Virtual Environment**  
    Create and activate a virtual environment to manage dependencies.

    ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    # On Windows
    venv\Scripts\activate
    # On macOS/Linux
    source venv/bin/activate
    ```

3. **Install Dependencies**  
    Install the required Python packages from `requirements.txt`.

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

4. **Update Configuration**  
    Open the `configuration.json` file and update the following fields to match your inputs:
    - Set the correct file directory and sheet name for your excel files
    - Add any wells to exclude in the `wellsToExclude` field.

    Example:

    ```json
    {
        "inputFileDirectory": "InputFiles",
        "inputFileSheetName": "Data",
        "wellsToExclude": [1 ,2, 6]
    }
    ```

## Running the Analysis

Run the `ZebrafishDataAnalysis.py` script to start the analysis.

```bash
python ZebrafishDataAnalysis.py
```

## Notes

- Ensure the configuration file is correctly updated before running the script.
- For any issues, please open an issue in the repository.
